>>> ON THIS EDITION FO
SATURDAY, MARCH 8th, THE LATES
ON THE DISAPPEARANCE OF THAT
MALAYSIAN JETLINER CARRYING 23
PASSENGERS AND CREW.
GERMANY'S POTENTIALLY PIVOTA
ROLE RESOLVING THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE.
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, TH
CONNECTION BETWEEN MUSIC AND
LEARNING
>> THE IDEA WAS NEVER TO MAK
MUSICIANS.
THE IDEA WAS TO BUILD HIGHLY
FUNCTIONING, RESPONSIBLE
CITIZENS
>> NEXT ON PBS "NEWS HOU
WEEKEND.
>>> FROM THE STUDIOS AT IN NEW
YORK, HARI SREENIVASAN
>> INVESTIGATORS ARE TRYING TO
DETERMINE WHAT HAPPENED TO A
MALAYSIAN AIRLINE FLIGHT
CARRYING 239 PASSENGERS AND CREW
WHICH DISAPPEARED WITHOU
WARNING ON ROUTE FROM KUAL
LUMPUR TO BEIJING LAST NIGHT
SEVERAL HOURS LATER, TWO OIL
SLICKS, EACH SEVERAL MILES LONG,
WERE SPOTTED IN WATERS OFF
VIETNAM.
A POSSIBLE SIGN THE MISSIN
BOEING 777 AIRCRAFT WENT DOW
NEAR THERE
WE HAVE THE LATEST FROM BE
CHAPMAN OF ITV NEWS.
>> Reporter: IT WAS AN ANXIOUS
AND ANGUISHED WAIT FOR A PLANE
THAT WOULD NEVER ARRIVE.
FAMILIES WHO CAME TO BEIJING
AIRPORT TO SELECT THEIR LOVE
ONES SLOWLY REALIZED THEY WERE
LOST
IN KUALA LUMPUR WHERE THE PLAN
TOOK OFF, PEOPLE CLAMBERED FOR
INFORMATION AND HOPE
BUT THERE WAS NONE OF EITHER T
GIVE THEM.
>> NO USE.
STILL WAITING.
NO NEWS.
>> Reporter: THE PASSENGERS WERE
ONBOARD THIS MALAYSIAN AIRLINE'S
BOEING 777
TRACKING WEBSITES SHOW THAT TW
HOURS INTO ITS JOURNEY 35,00
FEET ABOVE THE SOUTH CHINA SEA
IT SUDDENLY DISAPPEARS OFF THE
RADAR.
THE PILOTS HAD NOT SENT AN
DISTRESS SIGNAL.
>> THAT INDICATES A CATASTROPHIC
FAILURE ONBOARD THE AIRPLANE
WE COULD BE TALKING ABOU
ANYTHING FROM THE FAILURE OF
SYSTEMS ONBOARD THE AIRPLANE
RIGHT THE WAY THROUGH TO AN AC
OF TERRORISM
>> IT WAS MECHANICAL AND PILOT
FAILURES THAT WERE BLAMED FOR
SIMILAR CRASH FIVE YEARS AGO
WHEN AN AIR FRANCE PLANE
DISAPPEARED DURING A STORM OVE
THE ATLANTIC
BUT THIS TIME, WEATHER
CONDITIONS WERE GOOD
TWO PASSENGERS MAY HAVE BEEN
TRAVELING ON STOLEN PASSPORTS.
BUT OFFICIALS SAY IT'S TOO SOO
TO SPECULATE ON THE CAUSE.
>> WE ARE LOOKING AT ALL
POSSIBILITIES.
IT'S TOO EARLY TO MAKE ANY
SPECIFIC REMARKS
>> Reporter: AND DESPITE A
SEARCH EFFORT BEING COORDINATE
ACROSS FIVE COUNTRIES, N
WRECKAGE HAS YET BEEN FOUND.
ALTHOUGH THE VIETNAMESE AI
FORCE HAVE FOUND TWO OIL SLICK
NEAR WHERE THE PLANE WEN
MISSING.
TONIGHT, RELATIVES IN BEIJIN
ARE BEING SUPPORTED AT A HOTEL
STILL UNSURE WHAT HAS HAPPENED
TO THEIR LOVED ONES, BUT FEARING
THE WORST.
BEN CHAPMAN, ITV NEWS.
>> BOEING IS REPORTING THA
HAIRLINE CRACKS HAVE BEE
DISCOVERED IN THE WINGS OF SOM
OF ITS 787 DREAMLINERS NOW BEING
BUILT.
122 OF THE 787s ARE ALREADY IN
USE AROUND THE WORLD
BUT THE COMPANY SAYS IT IS
CONFIDENT NONE OF THOSE PLANES
HAS THE SAME PROBLEM
THE WINGS ARE PRODUCED IN JAPA
BY MITSUBISHI HEAVY INDUSTRIES
AND THEN FLOWN TO THE U.S.
BOEING SAYS THEY ARE CONDUCTIN
INSPECTIONS AT ASSEMBLY PLANTS
IN WASHINGTON STATE, CHARLESTON,
SOUTH CAROLINA AND AT TH
MITSUBISHI PLANT IN JAPAN.
>>> THE CHIEF OF THE U.S. BORDER
PATROL HAS ISSUED A DIRECTIV
ADVISING AGENTS NOT TO FIR
THEIR WEAPONS UNLESS ABSOLUTEL
NECESSARY.
IMMIGRANT RIGHTS GROUPS HAVE
CRITICIZED THE AGENTS FOR BEIN
TRIGGER HAPPY.
ACCORDING TO THE U.S
GOVERNMENT, AGENTS HAVE FIRE
THEIR WEAPONS 43 TIMES SINCE
TYPICALLY AFTER BEING TARGETED
BY ROCK THROWERS ALONG THE
BORDER WITH MEXICO
10 OF THE ROCK THROWERS HAVE
BEEN KILLED.
>>> RUSSIA TODAY DISPATCHE
HUNDREDS OF TROOPS TO AN ARE
NEAR THE CAPITAL CITY OF CRIMEA.
THE UKRAINIAN TERRITORY IT
OCCUPIED A WEEK AGO.
REUTERS RELEASED THESE PIC
WHICH YOU ARES SHOWING A CONVO
OF ABOUT 65 TRUCKS CARRYIN
TROOPS TO A MILITARY BASE THERE.
THEY SAID THE CONVOY WAS
ACCOMPANIED BY EIGHT ARMORED
VEHICLES, TWO AMBULANCES AND
FUEL TANKERS
UKRAINE SAID THAT ONE OF ITS
BORDER PATROL AIRPLANES CAME
UNDER FIRE TODAY WHILE FLYIN
NEAR CRIMEA.
IT SAID NO ONE ABOARD WAS HURT
WE'LL HAVE MORE ON UKRAINE RIGHT
AFTER THE NEWS SUMMARY
>>> FORMER NSA CONTRACTOR EDWARD
SNOWDEN CLAIMS THAT BEFORE
LEAKING CLASSIFIED DOCUMENTS T
THE PRESS, HE WENT TO MORE THA
TEN INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS WIT
CONCERNS ABOUT THE AGENCY'
SURVEILLANCE TECHNIQUES.
HE SAYS NONE OF THEM TOOK AN
ACTION
IN WRITTEN TESTIMONY TO THE EU
RELEASED YESTERDAY, SNOWDEN SAYS
HE WAS WARNED, QUOTING NOW, NO
TO ROCK THE BOAT
AND TO LET THE ISSUE BE SOMEON
ELSE'S PROBLEM
THE NSA DECLINED TO COMMENT.
>>> FOR THE FIRST TIME IN SI
YEARS AN EU FOREIGN POLICY CHIEF
IS IN IRAN FOR TALKS
KATHERINE ASHTON ARRIVED I
TEHRAN FOR MEETINGS WITH HIG
LEVEL IRANIAN OFFICIAL
INCLUDING PRESIDENT ROUHAN
ABOUT THAT COUNTRY'S DISPUTE
NUCLEAR PROGRAM.
HER VISIT IS A PRELUDE T
NUCLEAR NEGOTIATIONS THAT RESUME
ON MARCH 17th IN VIENNA BETWEE
IRAN AND THE WORLD'S SIX LEADING
POWERS
>>> BACK IN THE U.S., THE ANNUAL
CAPTURE AND SLAUGHTER OF BISON
IN YELLOWSTONE NATIONAL PARK HAS
ENDED.
MORE THAN 260 BISON HAVE BEE
KILLED SO FAR THIS YEAR AND
SIMILAR NUMBER HAVE BEEN
CAPTURED AND SHIPPED FOR
SLAUGHTER.
IT'S ALL PART OF A PLAN TO LIMIT
THE BISON POPULATION IN THE PARK
TO 3,000
RANCHERS NEAR THE PARK CLAIM
BISON SPREAD DISEASE AND REDUC
GRAZING LAND FOR CATTLE.
WILDLIFE ADVOCATES OPPOSE TH
PROGRAM SAYING THERE'S ROOM FO
MORE BISON IN THE PARK
>>> THERE'S BEEN A MAJOR
ARCHAEOLOGICAL FIND.
A 3,000-YEAR-OLD BURIAL SITE
CONTAINING THE REMAINS OF FIVE
PEOPLE HAS BEEN UNEARTHED IN
PERU
ARCHAEOLOGISTS FOUND TOOLS
NECKLACES AT THE SITE.
IT'S BELIEVED TO DATE FROM THE
PRE INCAN AREA
IT'S THE FIRST TIME HUMA
REMAINS THAT OLD HAVE BEEN FOUND
THERE.
>>> IT'S BEEN A WEEK NOW SINCE
RUSSIAN FORCES OCCUPIED CRIMEA
AN AREA THAT'S BEEN PART O
UKRAINE FOR THE LAST 60 YEARS.
PUBLICLY, AT LEAST, NEITHER SIDE
SEEMS TO BE GIVING GROUND.
RUSSIA MAY BE ON THE VERGE O
ANNEXING THE REGION.
AND THE WEST IS IMPOSING
SANCTIONS.
ONE COUNTRY MIGHT BE UNIQUEL
POSITIONED TO HELP RESOLVE THE
DISPUTE.
THAT COUNTRY IS GERMANY.
FOR MORE ABOUT THIS WE'RE JOINED
FROM WASHINGTON BY THE EXECUTIVE
DIRECTOR OF THE TRANSATLANTI
ACADEMY AND HAS WRITTE
EXTENSIVELY ABOUT GERMAN FOREIGN
AND SECURITY POLICIES FOR MANY
YEARS.
STEVE, WHY IS GERMANY UNIQUELY
POSITIONED HERE?
HOW COULD THEY BREAK THI
LOGJAM
>> WELL, THEY ARE BY FAR THE
MOST IMPORTANT PLAYER IN EUROP
ON RUSSIA AND RUSSIA POLICY.
YOU REALLY CAN'T HAVE A EUROPEAN
POSITION WITHOUT GERMANY O
RUSSIA
OF COURSE, THE EUROPEAN POSITION
IS CENTRAL TO THE AMERICAN
STRATEGY
BECAUSE WE CAN'T HAVE A REALLY
EFFECTIVE STRATEGY IF TH
EUROPEANS ARE NOT ONBOARD.
SECONDLY, THE GERMANS ARE A HUGE
ECONOMIC PLAYER IN RUSSIA.
BY FAR THE LARGEST FOREIGN
PLAYER
SO THEY HAVE A LOT OF IMPACT O
RUSSIA
THE RUSSIANS LISTEN TO THE
BECAUSE OF THIS CLOSE ECONOMIC
RELATIONSHIP
AND SO THE GERMANS CAN, I THINK,
SPEAK TO PUTIN WITH A LITTLE BIT
MORE CONFIDENCE, LET'S SAY, HE
WOULD HAVE MORE CONFIDENCE I
THEM THAN TALKING, LET'S SAY, TO
OBAMA OR TO SOMEBODY FROM OTHE
COUNTRIES.
SO THEY'RE INCREASINGL
IMPORTANT INTERLOCULAR BETWEEN
THE U.S. AND RUSSIA.
>> WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT MERKE
AND PUTIN?
>> IT'S VERY BAD
AT LEAST AS BAD AS THE
OBAMA/PUTIN RELATIONSHIP
DON'T FORGET, SHE GREW UP IN
EAST GERMANY
PUTIN WAS A KGB OFFICER IN EAS
GERMANY AT THE TIME.
WHEN THEY FIRST MET WHEN SHE WAS
CHANCELLOR, PUTIN KNEW SHE HAD A
BIG FEAR OF DOGS
ESPECIALLY BIG DOGS.
PUTIN BROUGHT HIS BIG DOG INTO
THE MEETING TO SHOW HER THAT H
KNEW THAT AND THAT HE COUL
INTIMIDATE HER
SHE'S ALSO FELT THAT WHEN PUTI
SPEAKS GERMAN TO HER, SHE'
BEING INTERROGATED
ON A PERSONAL LEVEL IT'S VER
BAD.
BUT MERKEL IS A PROFESSIONAL
SHE'S A SCIENTIST.
SHE'S VERY RATIONAL.
SHE'S A POLITICIAN
SHE UNDERSTANDS THAT YOU HAVE TO
SEPARATE PERSONAL FEELINGS FRO
POLITICAL RELATIONSHIPS.
AND SHE'S DONE THAT AS WELL.
SO SHE DOES -- I THINK SHE DOE
THAT VERY EFFECTIVELY.
>> WOW
NOW, THIS IS IN THE CONTEXT OF A
U.S./GERMAN RELATIONSHIP THAT'
GONE THROUGH SOME STRAINS.
WE'VE REALIZED THAT ONE ALLY HAS
BEEN BUGGING THE CELL PHONE OF
THE OTHER ALLY
>> ABSOLUTELY.
THAT'S A VERY IMPORTANT FACTOR
RIGHT NOW IN THIS WHOL
RELATIONSHIP ON RUSSIA AND
CRIMEA AND UKRAINE
BECAUSE THE GERMAN/AMERICA
RELATIONSHIP IS REALLY AT A BA
STATE RIGHT NOW.
THE SNOWDEN EFFECT HAS BEEN VERY
DEEP IN GERMANY.
MUCH DEEPER THAN ANYWHERE ELSE
REALLY, IN EUROPE.
YOU HAVE TO THINK, OF COURSE
ABOUT THEIR HISTORY.
NOT ONLY THE NAZI PAST BUT THE
EAST GERMAN STAZI.
WE'RE ALWAYS LISTENING INTO EAST
GERMAN CONVERSATIONS
THE GERMANS ARE VERY SENSITIVE
THEY ALSO FELT THE U.S. WA
THEIR BEST ALLY AND REALLY A
FRIEND
NOW THEY FEEL BETRAYED
THEY'RE KIND OF CAUGHT IN TH
MIDDLE
THEY HAVE A CERTAIN SENSE OF
DISTANCE FROM THE U.S.
THEY ALSO HAVE THE STRON
ECONOMIC STAKE WITH RUSSIA
AT THE SAME TIME, THE GERMAN
PUBLIC AND THE GERMAN MEDIA AR
EXTREMELY CRITICAL OF WHAT'S
GOING ON IN RUSSIA AND WIT
PUTIN IN PARTICULAR.
SO IT'S A VERY DIFFICULT TIME,
I'D SAY, FOR THEM RIGHT NOW.
BUT IT'S A VERY TOUGH TIME FOR
THE U.S. TO TRY TO WORK WITH THE
GERMANS GIVEN THIS SNOWDEN
IMPACT AND THE FACT THAT THEY'RE
STILL VERY DISAPPOINTED IN THE
OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
>> WHAT ARE THE GERMANS DOIN
RIGHT NOW?
IT SEEMS NEITHER GERMANY OR TH
U.S. WANT TO TAKE THE LEAD O
SANCTIONS AND POSSIBLY PUT THEIR
OWN COMPANIES AND THEI
COUNTRIES AT A COPETITIV
DISADVANTAGE
>> THAT'S EXACTLY RIGHT.
THIS IS THE IMPORTANT POINT THAT
WE HAVE TO KEEP IN MIND IN
TRYING TO DEVELOP OUR OW
SANCTION POLICY.
BECAUSE WE DON'T WANT TO
PENALIZE OUR OWN COMPANIES
OUR ECONOMIC STAKE IS MUCH
SMALLER THAN THE EUROPEAN OR THE
GERMAN STAKE, BUT IT'S STILL
THERE.
THERE ARE CERTAIN COMPANIES THAT
ARE TRYING TO MAKE -- THEY HAV
SOME SUBSTANTIAL INVESTMENTS
LET'S SAY, IN RUSSIA
SO I THINK THAT WHAT THE GERMANS
ARE TRYING TO DO IS TO TRY T
FIND SOME SORT OF SOLUTION T
SEND A SIGNAL TO RUSSIA THAT
THIS IS BEING TAKEN VERY
SERIOUSLY, BUT AT THE OTHE
HAND, THEY REALIZE THAT THEY'R
IN A SITUATION WHERE THEY REALLY
CAN'T AFFORD TO TAKE SERIOUS
ECONOMIC SANCTIONS BECAUSE THE
IMPACT ON THEIR ACCOUNT WOULD BE
QUITE SUBSTANTIAL.
DON'T FORGET THAT THEY GET ABOUT
A THIRD OF THEIR ENERGY, THEIR
GAS AND THEIR OIL, DIRECTLY FROM
RUSSIA
SO THIS WOULD HAVE A DEVASTATING
IMPACT ON THEIR ECONOMY.
IT'S A BIT LIKE THE U.S./CHINA
RELATIONSHIP
WE HAVE A LOT OF PROBLEMS WITH
THE CHINESE BUT AT THE SAM
TIME, WE HAVE THIS VERY STRONG
ECONOMIC RELATIONSHIP WHIC
REALLY LIMITS WHAT WE CAN DO
>> HOW DO THOSE ENERGY NEEDS
PLAY INTO ALL OF THIS?
IT SEEMS THERE'S A FEW EUROPEA
COUNTRIES ALREADY ASKING FOR THE
U.S. TO START SELLING THEM
NATURAL GAS.
>> THAT'S RIGHT.
AND WE HAVE A VERY DIFFICULT
DECISION HERE.
BECAUSE WE WANT TO KEEP TH
NATURAL GAS HERE TO KEEP OUR
ENERGY PRICES DOWN
AND THIS ALLOWS US TO BE MOR
COMPETITIVE IN THE INTERNATIONAL
COMPETITION WITH GERMAN AN
EUROPEAN COMPANIES
SO THE MORE THAT WE SEND T
EUROPE, THE MORE THAT AFFECT
OUR ECONOMY AT HOME.
THE OTHER FACTOR, OF COURSE, I
GAS PROM IS NOW THREATENING TO
CUT OFF GAS SUPPLIES TO UKRAINE.
A LOT OF THE GAS TO EUROPE GOE
THROUGH UKRAINE.
THE GERMANS HAVE A SEPARATE GA
PIPELINE WITH THE RUSSIANS
SO THEY'RE A LITTLE BIT MORE
IMMUNE FROM THAT
BUT I THINK OVERALL, WE AR
SEEING RIGHT NOW THAT ENERGY CAN
BE A MAJOR FACTOR IN HOW THE
RUSSIANS TRY TO DESTABILIZ
UKRAINE AND PUT PRESSURE ON TH
EUROPEANS AND ALSO PUT PRESSUR
ON THE U.S./EUROPEAN
RELATIONSHIP
>> SO WHAT COULD GERMANY DO IN
THESE CONVERSATIONS WITH PUTIN
>> WELL, I THINK WHAT THEY CAN
DO, I REALLY THINK THE GERMANS
ARE GOING TO HAVE TO BE TH
INTERMEDIARIES BETWEEN THE WES
AND RUSSIA
I DON'T THINK -- I THINK THE
U.S. IS TOO POISONOUS RIGHT NO
IN TERMS OF PUTIN'S VIEW OF US
SO I THINK THEY HAVE TO BE -- TO
TAKE THE LEAD AND TO TELL TH
RUSSIANS ESSENTIALLY HOW SERIOUS
THIS IS AND THAT THEY REALLY ARE
RISKING A MUCH MORE SERIOU
BREACH WITH THE WEST IF THEY
DON'T UNDERSTAND THAT THEY
CAN'T -- I THINK CAN'T GO BEYOND
CRIMEA
I THINK CRIMEA IS A CONTAINABL
SITUATION.
IF THE RUSSIANS WERE TO GO INT
EASTERN UKRAINE, I THINK WE'RE
TALKING ABOUT A VERY, VERY
SERIOUS UNPREDICTABL
RELATIONSHIP
WHAT THE GERMANS AND THE
EUROPEANS ARE DOING RIGHT NOW IS
THREATENING TO STOP -- THEY WERE
TALKING ABOUT TRYING T
LIBERALIZE VISAS WITH TH
RUSSIANS INTO EUROPE, INTO
RUSSIA, INTO GERMANY, SORRY.
THEY WANT TO NOW SUSPEND THOSE
DISCUSSIONS.
THEY'RE SUSPENDING TRADE
THEY'RE TALKING ABOUT GOIN
THROUGH THIS EUROPEAN UNIO
TRADE ASSOCIATION WITH UKRAINE
AS A WAY OF BOLSTERING UKRAINE
SO THESE ARE THE KIND OF THING
I THINK THAT EUROPE AND TH
GERMANS CAN DO
>> STEVE SAVO FROM THE
TRANSATLANTIC ACADEMY, THANKS SO
MUCH
>> THANK YOU
MY PLEASURE.
>>> FINALLY, OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT WE TAKE A LOOK AT TH
POSSIBLE LINK BETWEEN MUSIC AN
LEARNING
ACCORDING TO THE NATIONA
ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS, THERE'
BEEN A SHARP DECLINE IN TH
NUMBER OF SCHOOL MUSIC PROGRAM
DURING THE LAST SEVERAL DECADES.
WHAT EFFECT THAT'S HAD O
LEARNING IS DIFFICULT TO
QUANTIFY, BUT THERE IS N
EVIDENCE THAT PRACTICING AND
PLAYING MUSIC REGULARLY DOES
HELP CHILDREN LEARN AND HELP
LOW INCOME CHILDREN MAKE UP LOST
GROUND
NEWS HOUR SPECIAL CORRESPONDEN
JOSH ARANSON REPORTS FROM LO
ANGELES.
HIS STORY FIRST AIRED IN
JANUARY.
>> Reporter: HE LIVES IN ONE O
THE POOREST NEIGHBORHOODS IN LOS
ANGELES.
LIKE MANY OF HER FRIENDS, SH
WAS STRUGGLING IN SCHOOL
HER INTEREST IN LEARNING MUSIC
PROMPTED HER PARENTS TO ENROLL
HER IN A MUSIC PROGRAM IN THEI
NEIGHBORHOOD CALLED THE HARMON
PROJECT.
IN THE THREE YEARS SINCE, MUCH
HAS CHANGED IN HER LIFE.
>> MUSIC IS LIKE A DIALOGUE.
BECAUSE WE CAN PLAY A CERTAI
THING.
LET'S SAY THE VIOLIN CAN PLA
SOMETHING BACK
IT CAN BE THE SAME MELODY,
DIFFERENT NOTES.
IT'S LIKE A CONVERSATION
TALKING BACK AND FORTH
>> Reporter: SERVING MORE THAN
2,000 STUDENTS WITH A BUDGET O
$2.5 MILLION, THE MOSTLY
PRIVATELY FUNDED HARMONY PROJECT
IS FILLING A GAP IN LOW INCOME
AREAS WHERE SCHOOLS HAVE CUT
MUSIC EDUCATION PROGRAMS
STUDENTS GET AT LEAST FIVE HOURS
OF MUSIC CLASSES AND REHEARSAL
EACH WEEK, YEAR ROUND.
FOR POOR STUDENTS, IT'S TUITIO
FREE, INCLUDING THEI
INSTRUMENT
59-YEAR-OLD MARGARET MARTI
STARTED THE HARMONY PROJECT IN
>> HARMONY PROJECT IS A RESEARCH
BASED PROGRAM.
WE COMMIT TO OUR STUDENTS FO
THEIR ENTIRE CHILDHOOD
>> Reporter: THE PROGRAMS AR
STARTED PURPOSELY IN TOUGH INNER
CITY AREAS TO SERVE CHILDREN O
POVERTY.
>> WE KNOW THAT DROPOUT RATE
ARE ABOUT 50% IN THE
NEIGHBORHOODS WHERE WE BUILD
HARMONY PROJECT PROGRAMS
MORE THAN 80% OF POOR BLACK AN
HISPANIC KIDS DO NOT READ AT
GRADE LEVEL.
>> Reporter: IT'S WELL
DOCUMENTED THAT CHILDREN WHOSE
MOTHERS HAVE LITTLE EDUCATIO
ARE RARELY BEING READ TO AND
VERBAL INTERACTION IN THOS
FAMILIES IS MINIMAL.
SCIENTISTS BELIEVE THAT THIS NOT
ONLY PUTS THEM BEHIND IN SCHOOL,
BUT THOSE CHILDREN RARELY CATC
UP
BECAUSE THEIR BRAINS ARE NOT
DEVELOPING AS RAPIDLY AS THE
BRAINS OF MORE STIMULATED KIDS
>> EARLY SUSTAINED MUSIC
LEARNING IS ACTUALLY THE FRAME
THE FRAME UPON WHICH EDUCATION
ITSELF CAN BE BUILT FOR LO
INCOME KIDS.
>> Reporter: MARGARET MARTIN WAS
CONVINCED OF THAT.
BECAUSE OF THE GRADUATION RATE
OF KIDS WHO HAVE GONE THROUG
HER PROGRAM.
THIS YEAR, SHE SAYS, 93% OF THEM
FINISHED HIGH SCHOOL IN FOUR
YEARS AND WENT TO COLLEGE.
BUT MARTIN ACKNOWLEDGES, SHE
DOES NOT HAVE THE FORMAL
TRAINING TO PROVE THAT MUSIC
HELPS KIDS GRASP LANGUAGE BETTER
AND BECOME MORE PROFICIENT
READERS.
SO SHE ENLISTED THE HELP OF THIS
WOMAN.
HER NAME IS DR. NINA KRAUSE.
SHE'S A NEUROBIOLOGIST A
NORTHWESTERN UNIVERSITY.
AND FOR 25 YEARS SHE HAS STUDIED
HOW THE BRAIN PROCESSE
INFORMATION.
THE NEUROBIOLOGY OF AUDITORY
LEARNING
NO ONE HAS EVER PROVEN
CONCLUSIVELY THAT MUSIC IMPROVES
LEARNING, AND SOME STUDIES HAV
FOUND NO LINK AT ALL
BUT AFTER BEING CONTACTED BY
MARTIN, THE NORTHWESTERN
SCIENTIST DESIGNED TESTS T
MEASURE THE IMPACT MUSIC HAD O
THIS GROUP OF LOW INCOME KIDS.
DR. KRAUSE STARTED IN 2011 WIT
A GROUP OF 80 STUDENTS FROM AN
L.A. GANG ZONE
THE STUDENTS CAME FROM SIMILAR
BACKGROUNDS AND WERE ALL
MOTIVATED TO LEARN MUSIC AT TH
HARMONY PROJECT.
HALF THE KIDS WERE SELECTED TO
START MUSIC STUDY THEN
AND THE OTHER HALF, THE CONTRO
GROUP, WAITED A YEAR TO BEGIN.
DR. KRAUSE'S TEAM TOOK A MOBIL
TESTING LAB TO L.A. AT THE
BEGINNING AND THEN ONCE A YEAR
FOR TWO YEARS TO ASSESS TH
CHANGE IN THE KIDS' BRAI
RESPONSE
IN SPECIFIC AREAS IMPORTANT FO
GOOD READING AND GOOD LEARNING
SKILLS
>> READY, SET, GO.
>> WE ASK THEM TO LISTEN T
WORDS OR PARTS OF WORDS.
>> IMAGINE THAT YOU'RE AT
PARTY.
THERE WILL BE A WOMAN TALKIN
AND SEVERAL OTHER TALKERS IN THE
BACKGROUND
>> WE HAVE THEM LISTEN T
SENTENCES THAT ARE PRESENTED I
NOISY BACKGROUNDS AND THEY HAV
TO REPEAT BACK AS MUCH OF TH
SENTENCE THAT THEY WERE ABLE T
HEAR
>> THE PENCIL WAS CUT TO B
SHARP AT BOTH ENDS
>> OF COURSE, THE BACKGROUND
GETS NOISIER AND NOISIER
IT GETS HARDER AND HARDER TO
HEAR THE SOUNDS.
>> A TOAD AND FROG EACH HAD TO
TELL A TALE.
>> PEOPLE WHO HAVE HAD MUSICAL
TRAINING ARE BETTER AT HEARING
SPEECH IN NOISE.
AND IT'S NOT THAT DIFFERENT FROM
WHAT YOU'RE ASKING YOUR NERVOU
SYSTEM TO DO WHEN YOU'RE
LISTENING FOR A TEACHER'S VOIC
IN A NOISY CLASSROOM
>> ESPECIALLY TRUE WHEN A CHIL
IS SITTING IN AN ORCHESTRA AND
HAS TO DISTINGUISH THE SOUND
HE'S MAKING AND HIS SECTION IS
MAKING FROM ALL THE OTHER SOUNDS
IN THE ORCHESTRA
>> EXACTLY
>> SO THE RED IS THE GROUP O
KIDS WHO HAVE HAD MUSI
EXPERIENCE
AND BETWEEN YEAR ONE AND YEA
TWO THE PERCEPTION IN NOISE IS A
STRAIGHT LINE UP
>> MM-HMM.
>> Reporter: AND THE BLACK LIN
REPRESENTS THE CONTROL GROUP
THAT STARTED MUSIC IN YEAR TWO
THEIR COMPREHENSION OF MEANING
IN A NOISY ENVIRONMENT GOES UP
ONLY THEN.
AFTER THEY STARTED MUSIC
>> AND THE KIDS WHO'VE NOW HAD
TWO YEARS OF MUSICAL EXPERIENC
ARE CONTINUING TO MAKE GAINS
MUSIC EDUCATION IS AN IMPORTAN
INVESTMENT IN TEACHING A CHILD
ALL KINDS OF SKILLS.
>> Reporter: DR. KRAUSE IS STILL
ANALYZING DATA
BUT SHE SAYS PRELIMINARY
FINDINGS SUGGEST MUSIC MAY
ENHANCE THE NEUROLOGICAL
DEVELOPMENT OF KIDS IN THE
HARMONY PROGRAM WHO HAD BEEN
BEHIND IN SCHOOL
>> YOU CAN DOCUMENT THAT KID
WHO HAVE HAD MUSICAL EDUCATION
NOW HAVE NERVOUS SYSTEMS THA
RESPOND MORE ACCURATELY AN
PRECISELY TO MEANINGFUL ELEMENTS
IN LANGUAGE.
>> IN SCIENCE, I HAVE VERY LOW
GRADES
ONCE I STARTED MUSIC, BEING ABLE
TO PRACTICE AND CONCENTRATING,
MY SCIENCE GRADES HAVE GON
HIGHER
AND SO HAVE MY OTHER GRADES IN
OTHER SUBJECTS
I WOULD CONCENTRATE IN MY MUSIC.
AND IT WAS SOMETHING TO BE
FOCUSED ON AND NOT BE BOTHERED
BY ANYONE.
OR IN ANYTHING
SCIENCE IS NOW ONE OF MY BES
SUBJECTS
>> Reporter: YOU LIKE IT NOW
>> YES
I LOVE IT.
>> Reporter: WHAT DO YOU SAY T
THOSE WHO SAY, WELL, THESE KID
ALL LISTEN TO MUSIC.
THEY'RE LISTENING TO MUSIC ALL
THE TIME
WHY DOESN'T THAT WORK?
>> NOBODY EVER GOT FIT WATCHIN
SPECTATOR SPORTS
PLUGGING IN AND LISTENING TO
MUSIC.
IT DOESN'T FIX YOUR BRAIN.
DOING IT TRANSFORMS YOUR NERVOUS
SYSTEM
IT MAKES YOU BASICALLY A BETTE
LEARNER.
>> Reporter: WHO'S TO SAY THAT
ARTS EDUCATION IN GENERAL,
WHETHER IT'S DANCE OR WHETHE
IT'S PAINTING, MIGHT BE AS
BENEFICIAL AS MUSIC IN TERMS O
DEVELOPING LEARNING SKILLS FOR
THESE KIDS
>> THERE HAVE BEEN A NUMBER OF
STUDIES.
AND THE LANGUAGE ABILITIES SEE
TO BE STRENGTHENED BY THE MUSI
INSTRUCTION MORE THAN THE ART.
AND SO THESE LANGUAGE-BASE
SKILLS SEEM TO PROFIT FROM MUSIC
INSTRUCTION.
>> Reporter: THE HARMONY PROJECT
HAS 17 SITES IN LOS ANGELES AN
1 IN VENTURA
AND THERE ARE 16 MORE IN THREE
OTHER STATES
>> HERE WE GO.
FROM THE ALLEGRO
MEASURE 37
>> Reporter: WHAT ARE THE GOALS?
WHERE DO YOU WANT TO TAKE THIS
>> OH, MAN
MY DREAM IS TO BUILD HARMONY
PROJECT PROGRAMS IN INNER CITIES
THROUGHOUT THE COUNTRY
BECAUSE OUR STUDENTS ARE
ACHIEVING THEIR UNIQUE
POTENTIAL.
THEY ARE BLOSSOMING.
>> Reporter: FIND OUT HO
SCIENTISTS, EDUCATORS AN
MUSICIANS ARE COLLABORATING TO
FIGURE OUT HOW THE BRAIN I
AFFECTED BY MUSIC.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> JOIN US TOMORROW ON AIR AN
ONLINE
WE'LL TAKE YOU TO ONE OF THE
LARGEST UKRAINIAN/AMERICAN
COMMUNITIES IN THE NATION.
WHAT THEY'RE THINKING AND DOIN
ABOUT THE CRISIS IN UKRAINE.
>> YOU FEEL LIKE YOU WANT TO D
SOMETHING.
YOU CAN'T DO ANYTHING.
AND YOU'RE HOPING THAT YOU GET
SOME SUPPORT FROM THE WORLD.
>> THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION OF
PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
I'M HARI SREENIVASAN
THANKS FOR WATCHING.